Document AI Observability data retention policy (#17129)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/ai-observability/data-retention.mdx

---
title: Data retention
---

PostHog retains the largest properties on `$ai_` events for 30 days. LLM conversations can be large, so storing these properties long-term is expensive. To keep costs down, PostHog deletes them after 30 days and keeps the rest of the event.

## How retention works

When PostHog ingests an `$ai_` event, the pipeline splits it into two copies:

- A full copy, with every property, goes to the `ai_events` table.
- A trimmed copy, without the large properties, goes to the `events` table.

The large properties are:

- `$ai_input`
- `$ai_output`
- `$ai_output_choices`
- `$ai_input_state`
- `$ai_output_state`
- `$ai_tools`

PostHog deletes the `ai_events` copy after 30 days. The trimmed copy in the `events` table persists like any other Product Analytics event, but it never includes the large properties.

## What this means for you

- To read the large properties, query the `ai_events` table – even for traces less than 30 days old. The `events` table never contains them.

> - After 30 days, the large properties are gone. A trace older than 30 days still appears, but its generations show no input or output content.

Reviewer: They're gone because we drop the full row in `ai_events`. That's how we efficiently get rid of the large properties.

> - After 30 days, the large properties are gone. A trace older than 30 days still appears, but its generations show no input or output content.

Author: ```suggestion
- After 30 days, the events are removed from the `ai_events` table, so a trace older than 30 days still appears, but its generations show no input or output content.
```
